## Spring 2017 Directed readings for Kevin Hawkins.

This is a  directed reading course for Kevin Hawkins for the summer of 2017. The goal of this directed reading is for Kevin to familarize himself with current papers that are providing a critical framework for our understanding of the nature of speciation, especially as it might apply to birds.  For the reading, we are focusing on two topics: the idea that genomic islands drive reproductive islands, and the alternative (but not necessarily incompatible) hypothesesis that mtDNA divergences and lack of introgression are driven by mitonuclear discord, which may drive reproductive isolation.

For each section, I ask Kevin to read all the papers. Upon completion, I will meet with Kevin for two hours. During that meeting we will discuss all the papers. One week before our meeting, Kevin will provide me:
- A printed copy of each paper that shows highlighting and annotations.
- A summary of the paper.  In the style of [Jonathan Tonkin]
- A list of three key points of observations. Written in sentence style. Two to four sentences per observation.

### Part One:  Genomics Islands and Speciation
1. Nadeau, N.J., Whibley, A., Jones, R.T., Davey, J.W., Dasmahapatra, K.K., Baxter, S.W., Quail, M.A., Joron, M., Blaxter, M.L., Mallet, J. and Jiggins, C.D., 2012. Genomic islands of divergence in hybridizing Heliconius butterflies identified by large-scale targeted sequencing. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B, 367(1587), pp.343-353.
2. Feder, J.L., Egan, S.P. and Nosil, P., 2012. The genomics of speciation-with-gene-flow. Trends in Genetics, 28(7), pp.342-350.
3. Nosil, P. & Feder, J.L., 2012. Genomic divergence during speciation: causes and consequences. Philosophical transactions of the Royal Society of London. Series B, Biological sciences, 367(1587), pp.332–342.
4. Abbott, R., Albach, D., Ansell, S., Arntzen, J.W., Baird, S.J., Bierne, N., Boughman, J., Brelsford, A., Buerkle, C.A., Buggs, R. and Butlin, R.K., 2013. Hybridization and speciation. Journal of Evolutionary Biology, 26(2), pp.229-246.
5.  Feulner, P.G., Chain, F.J., Panchal, M., Huang, Y., Eizaguirre, C., Kalbe, M., Lenz, T.L., Samonte, I.E., Stoll, M., Bornberg-Bauer, E. and Reusch, T.B., 2015. Genomics of divergence along a continuum of parapatric population differentiation. PLoS Genet, 11(2), p.e1004966.
6.  Payseur, B.A. & Rieseberg, L.H., 2016. A genomic perspective on hybridization and speciation. Molecular ecology, 25(11), pp.2337–2360.
7.  Nosil, P. et al., 2017. Tipping points in the dynamics of speciation. Nature Ecology & Evolution, 1, p.0001.

### Part Two: Mitonuclear Discord
1. Burton, R.S., Ellison, C.K. and Harrison, J.S., 2006. The sorry state of F2 hybrids: consequences of rapid mitochondrial DNA evolution in allopatric populations. the american naturalist, 168(S6), pp.S14-S24.
2. Maroja, L.S., Larson, E.L., Bogdanowicz, S.M. and Harrison, R.G., 2015. Genes with Restricted Introgression in a Field Cricket (Gryllus firmus/Gryllus pennsylvanicus) Hybrid Zone Are Concentrated on the X Chromosome and a Single Autosome. G3: Genes| Genomes| Genetics, 5(11), pp.2219-2227.
3. Hill, G.E., 2017. The mitonuclear compatibility species concept. The Auk, 134(2), pp.393-409.	
4. Barnard‐Kubow, K.B., So, N. and Galloway, L.F., 2016. Cytonuclear incompatibility contributes to the early stages of speciation. Evolution, 70(12), pp.2752-2766.
5. Morales, H.E., Sunnucks, P., Joseph, L. and Pavlova, A., 2017. Perpendicular axes of differentiation generated by mitochondrial introgression. Molecular Ecology.
6. Sunnucks, P., Morales, H.E., Lamb, A.M., Pavlova, A. and Greening, C., 2017. Integrative Approaches for Studying Mitochondrial and Nuclear Genome Co-evolution in Oxidative Phosphorylation. Frontiers in Genetics, 8.
